README.md, before:

# biem-helmholtz-sphere

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/ultrasphere-dev/biem-helmholtz-sphere/actions/workflows/ci.yml?query=branch%3Amain">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/ultrasphere-dev/biem-helmholtz-sphere/ci.yml?branch=main&label=CI&logo=github&style=flat-square" alt="CI Status" >
  </a>
  <a href="https://biem-helmholtz-sphere.readthedocs.io">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/readthedocs/biem-helmholtz-sphere.svg?logo=read-the-docs&logoColor=fff&style=flat-square" alt="Documentation Status">
  </a>
  <a href="https://codecov.io/gh/ultrasphere-dev/biem-helmholtz-sphere">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/ultrasphere-dev/biem-helmholtz-sphere.svg?logo=codecov&logoColor=fff&style=flat-square" alt="Test coverage percentage">
  </a>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/astral-sh/uv">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astral-sh/uv/main/assets/badge/v0.json" alt="uv">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astral-sh/ruff/main/assets/badge/v2.json" alt="Ruff">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white&style=flat-square" alt="pre-commit">
  </a>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://pypi.org/project/biem-helmholtz-sphere/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/biem-helmholtz-sphere.svg?logo=python&logoColor=fff&style=flat-square" alt="PyPI Version">
  </a>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/biem-helmholtz-sphere.svg?style=flat-square&logo=python&amp;logoColor=fff" alt="Supported Python versions">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/biem-helmholtz-sphere.svg?style=flat-square" alt="License">
</p>

---

**Documentation**: <a href="https://biem-helmholtz-sphere.readthedocs.io" target="_blank">https://biem-helmholtz-sphere.readthedocs.io </a>

**Source Code**: <a href="https://github.com/ultrasphere-dev/biem-helmholtz-sphere" target="_blank">https://github.com/ultrasphere-dev/biem-helmholtz-sphere </a>

---

Acoustic scattering from multiple n-spheres in NumPy / PyTorch

[![Open in Spaces](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/badges/resolve/main/open-in-hf-spaces-xl-dark.svg)](https://huggingface.co/spaces/437aewuh/biem-helmholtz-sphere)

[![Open in Spaces](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/badges/resolve/main/open-in-hf-spaces-xl-dark.svg)](https://huggingface.co/spaces/437aewuh/biem-helmholtz-sphere)

## Installation

Install this via pip (or your favourite package manager):

```shell
pip install biem-helmholtz-sphere
```

## Usage (GUI)

![GUI](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ultrasphere-dev/biem-helmholtz-sphere/main/gui.webp)

```shell
uvx biem-helmholtz-sphere serve
```

## Usage

Boundary Integral Equation Method (BIEM) for the Helmholtz equation.

Let $d \in \mathbb{N} \setminus \lbrace 1 \rbrace$ be the dimension of the space,
$k$ be the wave number,
and $\mathbb{S}^{d-1} = \lbrace x \in \mathbb{R}^d \mid \|x\| = 1 \rbrace$
be a unit sphere in $\mathbb{R}^d$.
Let $B := {0, ..., }$ be the index set of spheres,
$c_b \in \mathbb{R}^d$ be the center of sphere $b \in B$,
and $\rho_b > 0$ be the radius of sphere $b \in B$.
Assume that the closure of spheres do not overlap, i.e.,

$$
\forall b, b' \in B, b \neq b', \|c_b - c_b'\| > \rho_b + \rho_b'
$$

Asuume that $u_\text{in}$ is an incident wave satisfying the Helmholtz equation

$$
\Delta u_\text{in} + k^2 u_\text{in} = 0
$$

and scattered wave $u$ satisfies the following:

$$
\begin{cases}
\Delta u + k^2 u = 0 \quad &x \in \mathbb{R}^d \setminus \overline{\mathbb{S}^{d-1}} \\
\alpha u + \beta \nabla u \cdot n_x
= -\alpha u_\text{in} -\beta \nabla u_\text{in} \cdot n_x \quad
&x \in \mathbb{S}^{d-1} \\
\lim_{\|x\| \to \infty} \|x\|^{\frac{d-1}{2}}
\left( \frac{\partial u}{\partial \|x\|} - i k u \right) = 0 \quad
&\frac{x}{\|x\|} \in \mathbb{S}^{d-1}
\end{cases}
$$

The following code assumes

$$
d = 3,
k = 1,
u_\text{in} (x) = e^{i k x_0},
c_0 = (0, 2, 0),
c_1 = (0, -2, 0),
\rho_0 = 1,
\rho_1 = 1,
\alpha = 1,
\beta = 0 \quad \text{(Sound-soft)}
$$

and computes the scattered wave at $(0, 0, 0)$.

```python
>>> from array_api_compat import numpy as xp
>>> from biem_helmholtz_sphere import BIEMResultCalculator, biem, plane_wave
>>> from ultrasphere import create_from_branching_types
>>> c = create_from_branching_types("ba")
>>> uin, uin_grad = plane_wave(k=xp.asarray(1.0), direction=xp.asarray((1.0, 0.0, 0.0)))
>>> calc = biem(c, uin=uin, uin_grad=uin_grad, k=xp.asarray(1.0), n_end=6, eta=xp.asarray(1.0), centers=xp.asarray(((0.0, 2.0, 0.0), (0.0, -2.0, 0.0))), radii=xp.asarray((1.0, 1.0)), kind="outer")
>>> complex(xp.round(calc.uscat(xp.asarray((0.0, 0.0, 0.0))), 6))
(-0.741333-0.669657j)
```

## Contributors ✨

Thanks goes to these wonderful people ([emoji key](https://allcontributors.org/docs/en/emoji-key)):

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<!-- markdownlint-enable -->
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

This project follows the [all-contributors](https://github.com/all-contributors/all-contributors) specification. Contributions of any kind welcome!

## Credits

[![Copier](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/copier-org/copier/master/img/badge/badge-grayscale-inverted-border-orange.json)](https://github.com/copier-org/copier)

This package was created with
[Copier](https://copier.readthedocs.io/) and the
[browniebroke/pypackage-template](https://github.com/browniebroke/pypackage-template)
project template.

Commit message:

feat: add cli for accuracy

README.md, after:

# biem-helmholtz-sphere

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/ultrasphere-dev/biem-helmholtz-sphere/actions/workflows/ci.yml?query=branch%3Amain">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/ultrasphere-dev/biem-helmholtz-sphere/ci.yml?branch=main&label=CI&logo=github&style=flat-square" alt="CI Status" >
  </a>
  <a href="https://biem-helmholtz-sphere.readthedocs.io">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/readthedocs/biem-helmholtz-sphere.svg?logo=read-the-docs&logoColor=fff&style=flat-square" alt="Documentation Status">
  </a>
  <a href="https://codecov.io/gh/ultrasphere-dev/biem-helmholtz-sphere">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/ultrasphere-dev/biem-helmholtz-sphere.svg?logo=codecov&logoColor=fff&style=flat-square" alt="Test coverage percentage">
  </a>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/astral-sh/uv">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astral-sh/uv/main/assets/badge/v0.json" alt="uv">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astral-sh/ruff/main/assets/badge/v2.json" alt="Ruff">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white&style=flat-square" alt="pre-commit">
  </a>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://pypi.org/project/biem-helmholtz-sphere/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/biem-helmholtz-sphere.svg?logo=python&logoColor=fff&style=flat-square" alt="PyPI Version">
  </a>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/biem-helmholtz-sphere.svg?style=flat-square&logo=python&amp;logoColor=fff" alt="Supported Python versions">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/biem-helmholtz-sphere.svg?style=flat-square" alt="License">
</p>

---

**Documentation**: <a href="https://biem-helmholtz-sphere.readthedocs.io" target="_blank">https://biem-helmholtz-sphere.readthedocs.io </a>

**Source Code**: <a href="https://github.com/ultrasphere-dev/biem-helmholtz-sphere" target="_blank">https://github.com/ultrasphere-dev/biem-helmholtz-sphere </a>

---

Acoustic scattering from multiple n-spheres in NumPy / PyTorch

[![Open in Spaces](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/badges/resolve/main/open-in-hf-spaces-xl-dark.svg)](https://huggingface.co/spaces/437aewuh/biem-helmholtz-sphere)

[![Open in Spaces](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/badges/resolve/main/open-in-hf-spaces-xl-dark.svg)](https://huggingface.co/spaces/437aewuh/biem-helmholtz-sphere)

## Installation

Install this via pip (or your favourite package manager):

```shell
pip install biem-helmholtz-sphere
```

## Usage (GUI)

![GUI](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ultrasphere-dev/biem-helmholtz-sphere/main/gui.webp)

```shell
uvx biem-helmholtz-sphere serve
```

## Usage

Boundary Integral Equation Method (BIEM) for the Helmholtz equation.

Let $d \in \mathbb{N} \setminus \lbrace 1 \rbrace$ be the dimension of the space,
$k$ be the wave number,
and $\mathbb{S}^{d-1} = \lbrace x \in \mathbb{R}^d \mid \|x\| = 1 \rbrace$
be a unit sphere in $\mathbb{R}^d$.
Let $B := {0, ..., }$ be the index set of spheres,
$c_b \in \mathbb{R}^d$ be the center of sphere $b \in B$,
and $\rho_b > 0$ be the radius of sphere $b \in B$.
Assume that the closure of spheres do not overlap, i.e.,

$$
\forall b, b' \in B, b \neq b', \|c_b - c_b'\| > \rho_b + \rho_b'
$$

Asuume that $u_\text{in}$ is an incident wave satisfying the Helmholtz equation

$$
\Delta u_\text{in} + k^2 u_\text{in} = 0
$$

and scattered wave $u$ satisfies the following:

$$
\begin{cases}
\Delta u + k^2 u = 0 \quad &x \in \mathbb{R}^d \setminus \overline{\mathbb{S}^{d-1}} \\
\alpha u + \beta \nabla u \cdot n_x
= -\alpha u_\text{in} -\beta \nabla u_\text{in} \cdot n_x \quad
&x \in \mathbb{S}^{d-1} \\
\lim_{\|x\| \to \infty} \|x\|^{\frac{d-1}{2}}
\left( \frac{\partial u}{\partial \|x\|} - i k u \right) = 0 \quad
&\frac{x}{\|x\|} \in \mathbb{S}^{d-1}
\end{cases}
$$

The following code assumes

$$
d = 3,
k = 1,
u_\text{in} (x) = e^{i k x_0},
c_0 = (0, 2, 0),
c_1 = (0, -2, 0),
\rho_0 = 1,
\rho_1 = 1,
\alpha = 1,
\beta = 0 \quad \text{(Sound-soft)}
$$

and computes the scattered wave at $(0, 0, 0)$.

```python
>>> from array_api_compat import numpy as xp
>>> from biem_helmholtz_sphere import BIEMResultCalculator, biem, plane_wave
>>> from ultrasphere import create_from_branching_types
>>> c = create_from_branching_types("ba")
>>> uin, uin_grad = plane_wave(k=xp.asarray(1.0), direction=xp.asarray((1.0, 0.0, 0.0)))
>>> calc = biem(c, uin=uin, uin_grad=uin_grad, k=xp.asarray(1.0), n_end=6, eta=xp.asarray(1.0), centers=xp.asarray(((0.0, 2.0, 0.0), (0.0, -2.0, 0.0))), radii=xp.asarray((1.0, 1.0)), kind="outer")
>>> complex(xp.round(calc.uscat(xp.asarray((0.0, 0.0, 0.0))), 6))
(-0.741333-0.669657j)
```

## Accuracy

- The radius of spheres is fixed to `1.0`.
- The incident wave is $u_\text{in} (x) = e^{i k x_0}$.
- For `n_balls == 2`, spheres are centered at `(0, 2, 0, ...)` and `(0, -2, 0, ...)`.
- For `n_balls == 4, ...`, spheres are placed in 2D grid pattern with distance of `4.0` between adjacent spheres.

### vs Wavenumber `k`

#### 2D

![k vs error 2D](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ultrasphere-dev/biem-helmholtz-sphere/main/accuracy/accuracy_heatmap_k_a.jpg)

#### 3D

![k vs error 3D](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ultrasphere-dev/biem-helmholtz-sphere/main/accuracy/accuracy_heatmap_k_ba.jpg)

### vs Number of Spheres `n_balls`

#### 2D

![n_balls vs error 2D](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ultrasphere-dev/biem-helmholtz-sphere/main/accuracy/accuracy_heatmap_n_balls_a.jpg)

## Citation

Consider citing the following paper if you use this package in your research:

- [doi.org/10.60443/jascome.25.0_143](https://doi.org/10.60443/jascome.25.0_143)

## Contributors ✨

Thanks goes to these wonderful people ([emoji key](https://allcontributors.org/docs/en/emoji-key)):

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<!-- markdownlint-enable -->
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

This project follows the [all-contributors](https://github.com/all-contributors/all-contributors) specification. Contributions of any kind welcome!

## Credits

[![Copier](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/copier-org/copier/master/img/badge/badge-grayscale-inverted-border-orange.json)](https://github.com/copier-org/copier)

This package was created with
[Copier](https://copier.readthedocs.io/) and the
[browniebroke/pypackage-template](https://github.com/browniebroke/pypackage-template)
project template.
